README.rst, before:

Microbe - 0.3.3
===============

Microbe (µ) - a javascript library

Microbe is a javascript library to aid in DOM manipulation as well as facilitating
events, object observation, and data binding.

The next goal being to convert the library to ES6 to be ready for the future.

Microbe aims to be somewhat general and expandable.  It's separated
into several categories:

+ Core helpers (iterator, each, … )

- DOM helpers such as appending and removing things from the DOM, getting parents and children, and class, attribute, and css manipulation,

+ Types (isUnidentified, isArray, isWindow, etc)

- HTTP helpers making use of Promises (get, post, … )

+ Object Observe watches objects for changes.  It can also watch itself for changes in element get/set data

- Events binding and emitting custom events

+ See the full list in the wiki https://github.com/sociomantic/microbe/wiki

Microbes are always array like for consistency and can be extended and merged very easily.


Don’t hesitate to file issues and features requests!  Or change things yourself and send a pull request.


Usage
=====

- include microbe.js or microbe.min.js
- that's it!


Example use
===========

.. code:: javascript

    // all divs on the page
    var µDivs = µ( 'div' ) ;

    // create a div with the class example--class
    var newDiv = µ( '<div.example--class>' );

    // all divs get a newDiv or a clone of newDiv inserted into the DOM after them
    µDivs.insertAfter( newDiv );

    // watches the class of each div
    µDivs.observe( 'class', function( e )
    {
        console.log( 'your class changed' );
    } );

    // gives the class example--class to each div also triggers the observe fuctions
    µDivs.addClass( 'example--class' );

    // sets a custom event watch
    µDivs.on( 'toTheMoon', function( e )
    {
        console.log( e.detail );
    } );

    // emits a custom event to all elements in µDivs with a custom data packet.
    // triggers the event listener to show the sent data
    µDivs.emit( 'toTheMoon', { moon : 'close' } );


Dev Installation
================

-  Clone repo
-  Make sure npm is installed
-  npm install
-  gulp


Contributing
============

We gladly accept and review any pull-requests. Feel free! :heart:


Changelog
=========

0.3.3
~~~~~

+ more consistent documentation
+ more consistent output
+ updated filter method
+ updated find method
+ support for css4 selectors
+ µ.matches for css selector matching
+ depreciated selector generation


0.3.2
~~~~~

+ added debounce
+ added insertStyle
+ added once
+ added poll
+ added prepend
+ added removeStyle
+ added removeStyles
+ addClass now accepts className strings
+ removeClass now accepts className strings and arrays
+ attr now accepts objects
+ html now accepts microbes
+ many documentation updates


0.3.1
~~~~~

+ added pseudo selector support
+ added filter function
+ added find function
+ many documentation updates


No one should be using less than 0.3.  Changes past that will be posted here.

Commit message:

inital support :dir(rtl) and :dir(ltr) for #53
+ fixed a bug in the microbe constructor with a microbe scope

README.rst, after:

Microbe - 0.3.3
===============

Microbe (µ) - a javascript library

Microbe is a javascript library to aid in DOM manipulation as well as facilitating
events, object observation, and data binding.

The next goal being to convert the library to ES6 to be ready for the future.

Microbe aims to be somewhat general and expandable.  It's separated
into several categories:

+ Core helpers (iterator, each, … )

- DOM helpers such as appending and removing things from the DOM, getting parents and children, and class, attribute, and css manipulation,

+ Types (isUnidentified, isArray, isWindow, etc)

- HTTP helpers making use of Promises (get, post, … )

+ Object Observe watches objects for changes.  It can also watch itself for changes in element get/set data

- Events binding and emitting custom events

+ See the full list in the wiki https://github.com/sociomantic/microbe/wiki

Microbes are always array like for consistency and can be extended and merged very easily.


Don’t hesitate to file issues and features requests!  Or change things yourself and send a pull request.


Usage
=====

- include microbe.js or microbe.min.js
- that's it!


Example use
===========

.. code:: javascript

    // all divs on the page
    var µDivs = µ( 'div' ) ;

    // create a div with the class example--class
    var newDiv = µ( '<div.example--class>' );

    // all divs get a newDiv or a clone of newDiv inserted into the DOM after them
    µDivs.insertAfter( newDiv );

    // watches the class of each div
    µDivs.observe( 'class', function( e )
    {
        console.log( 'your class changed' );
    } );

    // gives the class example--class to each div also triggers the observe fuctions
    µDivs.addClass( 'example--class' );

    // sets a custom event watch
    µDivs.on( 'toTheMoon', function( e )
    {
        console.log( e.detail );
    } );

    // emits a custom event to all elements in µDivs with a custom data packet.
    // triggers the event listener to show the sent data
    µDivs.emit( 'toTheMoon', { moon : 'close' } );


Dev Installation
================

-  Clone repo
-  Make sure npm is installed
-  npm install
-  gulp


Contributing
============

We gladly accept and review any pull-requests. Feel free! :heart:


Changelog
=========

0.3.3
~~~~~

+ more consistent documentation
+ more consistent output
+ updated filter method
+ updated find method
+ support for css4 selectors
+ µ.matches for css selector matching
+ depreciated selector generation
+ fixed a bug in microbe creation when the scope was a microbe


0.3.2
~~~~~

+ added debounce
+ added insertStyle
+ added once
+ added poll
+ added prepend
+ added removeStyle
+ added removeStyles
+ addClass now accepts className strings
+ removeClass now accepts className strings and arrays
+ attr now accepts objects
+ html now accepts microbes
+ many documentation updates


0.3.1
~~~~~

+ added pseudo selector support
+ added filter function
+ added find function
+ many documentation updates


No one should be using less than 0.3.  Changes past that will be posted here.
